hey this is fresh lacquer in the Spy's
sharing secret puzzle I asked what's the
minimum number of calls so that all
spies can learn all of the secrets if
you haven't watched the video please go
ahead and try it out I presented the
solution to this problem I provided a
link in the video description in this
video I'm going to justify why the
formulas for the minim number are true
so in one-way calls we have a total of 2
n minus 2 calls and in two-way calls we
have a minimum of 2 n minus 4 calls so
let's prove that 2 n minus 2 is the
minimum number for one-way calls
notice that when you have a group of n
spies it takes a minimum of n minus 1
calls even for 1 spy to be fully
informed of all the secrets because of
this if we remove one of the calls if we
have n minus 2 calls it's not possible
for any spy to be fully informed each
subsequent call however can fully inform
one spy so we would need n more calls to
fully inform the end spies this leads to
a lower bound on the number of calls as
n plus 2 plus n which equals 2 and minus
2 the procedures of calling the hub and
the greedy algorithm achieve this lower
bound and therefore we can say this is
the minimum number of calls in needed to
inform all spies in one way calls for
two-way calls it's a much harder proof
so how do we know 2n minus 4 is the
minimum number of calls there are
different ways to prove this the proof
all present in this video is a proof by
contradiction we'll assume that we can
get a smaller number so we assume that
at most 2 n minus 5 calls is sufficient
to inform some satisfies where n is
greater than 4 we'll let M be the
minimum number of spies that'll be a key
step into
some of the contradictions so in such a
calling procedure we would have to have
a certain principle apply that no spy no
one can hear their own information
no hoi for example spy a can never hear
spy a secret from someone else or spy B
can never hear spy B secret from someone
else this is not actually true in our 2n
minus 4 protocol when we have people
calling the hub the N minus 4 other
spies they do then get a call back from
someone in the hub so they are hearing
their own secret in this proof however
we're saying if you could do something
better than 2 and minus 4 you would need
the restriction that no one can hear
their own information once we know that
this condition has to be true on such a
more efficient calling procedure we then
through a series of steps end up with
the result that each spy has to make at
least 5 calls now this is going to be
very inefficient that would mean the
total number of calls would have to be 5
times M divided by 2 which is greater
than 2 m and therefore more than 2 m
minus 5 so this will lead to a
contradiction that if we assume the
number of the calling procedure can be
more efficient we actually get to result
that it can't be that efficient so
this'll allow us to conclude the minimum
number of calls is 2 n minus 4 so let's
get into the details of the proof so
we'll assume that we can get a more
efficient procedure that we can have at
most 2 n minus 5 calls
sufficient for some satisfies greater
than 4 a key part of this proof is that
we let M be the minimal number of spies
for which this is the case and we're
going to say in the sufficient calling
procedure no hoi no one can hear their
own information so if this principle
fails then that would mean some spy acts
shares information and then eventually
hears his own secret
so in graph theory that means there will
be a close cycle of calls X is going to
make a set of calls to different spies
and eventually X is going to hear that
secret so x shares that secret to s1
which gets shared so on all the way to
spy SK who then shares information with
X and again shares X secrets so this
would be the case of know-how fails
there is a close cycle of calls now we
might have other calls in this procedure
easier which are calls which take place
before s1 and ek are calls it takes
place before SK or we have EJ taking
place before SJ and ek plus 1 are calls
that take place after SK so we have some
graph in which M spies are informed with
two M minus 5 calls and the new High
Principal fails so M is supposed to be
the minimum number of spies in which we
can get to to M minus 5 but what we're
going to do is we're going to inform n
minus 1 spies using two fewer calls so
this will be at most two parenthesis n
minus 1 minus 5 calls so this is going
to contradict the minimality of M M is
supposed to be the minimal number for
which we can have a more efficient
calling procedure but if know-how fails
we can actually get it to one fewer spy
and still have a more efficient calling
procedure so how are we going to adjust
this calling procedure well we're gonna
inform n minus 1 spies so we're going to
remove spy X from the equation so we now
have n minus 1 spies so which two calls
are we going to get rid of we're gonna
get rid of the call X calling s 1 and X
calling SK we're now going to let all
the calls stay in the same order but
we're going to reroute them so we're
going to let the calls from easier which
go to X we'll let them go to s 1 instead
we'll let the calls from e1 go to s 1
and in general we're gonna let the calls
from EJ go to SJ so whatever calls were
taking place going to X we'll just have
it instead going to a different spy ek
goes to SK and then ek+ 1 goes to SK so
if the previous calling procedure
resulted in n spies learning all the
secrets in 2 and minus 5 this new
calling procedure is actually going to
inform all of these M minus 1 spies in 2
fewer calls and this is going to
contradict the minimality of M so what
this means is that we can't have no
Hawaii failed this no hoyt procedure
must be true if we have a more efficient
calling procedure so now we'll use this
no hoyp procedure to get to the case
that each Spy has to make at least five
calls so the first thing no Hawaii
implies is that if two spies are on a
final call it has to be a final call for
both spies the reason is that if it's a
final call both spies are fully informed
so if the spy makes another call to
someone say spy X then that's why X is
going to hear his own information
because the two spies that were on the
final call knew all of the secrets
including spy X's secret so we can't
have that happen so if two spies are on
a final call it has to be final call for
both similarly if two spies are on an
initial call with each other it must be
an initial call for both you can reason
out a similar contradiction so the M
spies together we have initial and final
calls which account for a total of M
calls that are made between the spies
since the total number of calls can be
at most 2 and minus 5 this leaves at
most M minus 5 calls that could be
intermediate calls which are not initial
or final calls now when we have M spies
it takes M minus 1 edges or n minus 1
calls to make a connected graph between
all the spies
so the graph of intermedia calls which
has n minus 5 edges and minus 5 calls
there must be at least 5 disjoint
connected components in the graph of
intermediate calls well look at spy a
spy a can be part of one component and
perhaps connected to two more components
of intermediate calls due to the initial
and final calls so what that means is
spy a is not connected to at least two
components of the graph of intermediate
calls so these calls essentially are
wasted from ace perspective they have no
relation to a actually learning
information so we'll denote this as W of
a now it takes n minus one calls for spy
a to get informed and another n minus
one calls for all the spice to learn a
secret by no hoi the only calls which
accomplish both roles of spy a learning
information and sharing a secret have to
involve spy a will denote the number of
these phone calls by P of a so now let's
take a look at the total number of calls
that we have in our procedure we have n
minus 1 calls plus another n minus 1
calls that share a n minus 1 calls for a
to get inform plus another n minus 1
calls to share a secret and we subtract
out the mutual calls P of a which might
be doing both we then added the wasted
calls so we have M plus 1 plus M plus 1
which gets to 2 I minus 2 we subtract
out the possibly mutual calls and then
we add in the number of wasted calls so
all of these just all of these calls
have to be blessed than the total number
of calls which is to M minus 5 we can
rearrange this inequality to get that
the number of calls of a makes it to be
greater than or equal to 3 plus the
number of wasted calls now the number of
wasted calls are non-negative so that
means a has to make at least 3 calls
while since a makes
one initial and one final calls because
a makes at least three calls a must make
one intermediate call at least and
similarly all spies have to make an
intermediate call so what this means is
that in the two components of the
intermediate calls which are not
connected to a there must be calls in
these components it can't just be a
graph which is not connected so from a
perspective there must be at least two
wasted calls so we'll go back to our
inequality about the number of calls a
has to make and we'll substitute in that
the wasted calls has to be at least 2
which means the total number of calls
that a makes has to be at least 5 and
this is true for all spies all of this
logic is true for all spies so this
means every single Spy has to make at
least five calls well when you have an
spot and the spies that means the total
number of calls has to be at least five
times them divided by two because the
calls take place in pairs so 5m divided
by 2 is greater than 2m and there's also
more than 2m minus 5 so we assumed fewer
than 2m minus 4 calls are possible but
that resulted in a contradiction that
says we must have more calls therefore 2
n minus 4 is a lower bound on the number
of calls and we know it's the minimum
value because we've achieved it in our
algorithm of everyone calling one of the
four hub spies thanks for watching this
video please subscribe to my channel I
make videos on math and game theory you
can catch me on my blog mind your
decisions which you can follow on
Facebook Google+ and patreon you can
catch her on social media at pressure
soccer and if you like this video please
check out my books there links in the
video description